In this lecture we will take a closer look at shadows and other cool effects that we can add to HVM
element.
The two main types of shadows and CSSA are text shadows and box shadows texture shadows are created
using the text Chatto property box shadows are created using the black shadow property.
These two properties have a lot of values in common.
Both support a horizontal offset vertical offset blur radius and color.
In addition to these values we can also give a box shadow a spread radius.
Let's take a look at how we can combine these different values for these properties to create some cool
shadow effect.
First we will add a paragraph element to our Web page and give it some example Tex.
Then we will add an opening and closing style tag to our code.
We will use the text Chatto property and give our text Chatto a horizontal offset of 3 pixels of vertical
offset of 3 pixels a blur radius of three pixels and a color of gray.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code
as you can see our text now is the text Chatto that we specified behind it.
Let's go back to the editor if we increase the blur radius to 10 pixels you will notice that the shadow
becomes smoother and more subtle.
Let's make this change and then run our code in the web browser.
As you can see the shadow is more blurred.
Let's jump back to the Editor want to add a cool gradual shadow that fades out to the bottom left of
your text element start at negative 1 for the horizontal offset and subtract one for each subsequent
value for the vertical offset.
Make it the absolute value of two times the horizontal shadow.
We will give each a blur radius of one pixel.
Finally choose grey colors that gradually progressed from dark to light.
The result is a smooth shadow that fades out to the bottom left of text.
We are going to add 15 lines of style code to create this effect.
Our first Chatto will have a horizontal offset of negative 1 pixels of vertical offset of 2 pixels a
blur radius of one pixel and a hex color of 7 6 7 6 7 6.
Our second shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 2 pixels of vertical offset of 4 pixels
of Blur radius of one pixel and a hex color of 7 6 7 4 7 4.
Our third shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 3 pixels of vertical offset of 6 pixels of
Blur radius of one pixel and a hex color of 7 B-7 a 7.
Our fourth shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 4 pixels of vertical offset of 8 pixels
a blur radius of one pixel and the hex color of 8 2 8 1 8 1 or fifth shadow will have a horizontal offset
of negative 5 pixels of vertical offset of 10 pixels a blur radius of one pixel and a hex color of 8
b 8 8 8 9 are 6.
Shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 6 pixels of vertical offset of 12 pixels a blur radius
of one pixel and a hex color of 9 4 9 3 9 2 or 7.
The shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 7 pixels of vertical offset of 14 pixels a blur
radius of one pixel and a hex color of ninety nine C 9 C R our shadow will have a horizontal offset
of negative 8 pixels of vertical offset of 16 pixels a blur radius of one pixel and a hex color of a
8 a 6 a 6 or 9.
Shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 9 pixels of vertical offset of 18 pixels a blur radius
of one pixel and a hex color be to be 1 be zero.
Our tenth shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 10 pixels of vertical offset of 20 pixels
a blur radius of one pixel and a hex color.
B C B B B A R eleventh shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 11 pixels of vertical offset
of 22 pixels a blur radius of one pixel and a hex color of C6 C-4.
See for our twelfth shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 12 pixels of vertical offset of
24 pixels a blur radius of one pixel and a hex color of C-A CD CD or thirteenth shadow will have a horizontal
offset of negative 13 pixels of vertical offset of 26 pixels a blur radius of one pixel and a hex color
of da D6 D5 or.
Shadow will have a horizontal offset of negative 14 pixels of vertical offset of 28 pixels a blur radius
of one pixel and a hex color of D.S. DD DC or fifteenth châteaux will have a horizontal offset of negative
15 pixels of vertical offset of 30 pixels a blur radius of one pixel and a hex color of E for each 3
E-2.
Once we finish typing all of that code we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see
we now have a gradual text Chatto that fades to the bottom left.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
Bach shadows are the other main type of shadow and CSSA to create a simple box shadow let's say a development
to a webpage.
Let's add some stylization to our div..
We will give our DiVall width and height then we will use the box Shatto property to add a box shadow
to our div.
We will give our box châteaux a horizontal offset vertical offset blur radius scragged radius and color.
Let's give our box châteaux a horizontal offset of 0 pixels of vertical offset of 0 pixels a blur radius
of 50 pixels a spread radius of 20 pixels and a color of black.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code.
You can see the back shadow that we added behind Argive.
Let's go back to the editor to make the shadow applied to the inside of our div as opposed to the outside
of it.
We can use the inset keyword.
Let's say the inset keyword is then run our code again in the web browser as you can see the shadow
is now inset inside of our div.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can modify these properties to position the shadow under a side of our div.
Let's remove the inset key word that we added for the last example so that the shadow is outside of
our div then we will give our box shadow a horizontal offset of 30 pixels of vertical offset of 20 pixels
a blur radius of 60 pixels a spread radius of negative 7 pixels and the color of black.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code.
You will notice that the shadow is now offset underneath the side of our div in the next lecture.
We will learn about how we can position elements using CSSA.